#summary Roadmap for PyICQt administrators

= Introduction =

You want to set up your own PyICQt installation, but don't know which should be first step? I hope this page can help to make it.


= Details =

1. Installation of the transport requires machine with some software. 
Minimal requirements:
  * Python - 2.4
  * Twisted - 2.5
Recommended requirements:
  * OS - Linux
  * Python - 2.5
  * Twisted - 8.1
Work of the transport can be unstable under Python =< 2.3. And it absolutely not tested under >= 2.6

2. Then jabber server is needed. I use [http://ejabberd.im ejabberd], but you can choose any one from 10+, listed on [http://xmpp.org/software/servers.shtml this page]. Documentation for server comes with it.

3. PyICQt itself can be downloaded from this site (see [http://code.google.com/p/pyicqt/downloads/list Downloads] section) or pulled from your distribution repository. 

4. Configure interaction between server and transport (manual for ejabberd can be found [http://www.ejabberd.im/pyicqt here])

5. Done? Now restart them and try to connect to your own jabber server with [http://www.jabber.org/web/Clients jabber client] and make service discovery. If you see transport and it responses on yours requests - configuration was successful

6. No more installation steps. Only documentation [http://code.google.com/p/pyicqt/wiki/UserStartPage for users]

= Other? =
  * [OnlineDocumentation] - more comprehensive documentation, but partially out-of-date
  * [Monitor] - monitoring of a transport state
  * [Upgrade] - updating from previous PyICQt's version